Another U.S.
official has
publicly quit their government
job over the Biden administration's
handling of the Israel-Hamas war
until yesterday.
Doctor
and now she line was a foreign affairs
officer at the State Department,
working in an office that promotes
human rights in the Middle East. Dr.
Shi Line details
the reasoning behind
her public resignation
in a CNN Opinion article,
and she joins us now.
Thanks so much for joining us.
Thank you for having me.
You write
regarding the forced
displacement of Gaza civilians,
the lack of aid, violence
by Israeli settlers in the West Bank.
You say, quote, These actions which
which experts on genocide
have testified meet
the crime of genocide,
are conducted
with the diplomatic and military
support of the US government.
And that's the basis of your resignation.
As you know,
genocide is a very specific
definition here.
How do you feel
Israel's behavior there
meets that definition?
I mean, I would
leave that to the experts.
As you said,
it is a very specific definition.
But I, I would argue that in general,
the actions that Israeli
military is taking
are are seeking
to wipe out the population of Gaza.
We've also heard
such statements
made by Israeli
officials, political officials
and military officials.
The
UN, unfortunately,
we're also hearing plans
being made now for people
to take over the territory
of the Gaza Strip.
We had Jared Kushner
come on and talk about
how he's going to build highrises
on this beautiful
beachfront properly property.
You know, as you said,
the crime of genocide
does not need to meet
a particular legal definition.
But
I would I would posit that there are
there are many experts
who are who are arguing that
that is what Israel is doing.
Well, intent is key,
of course,
because here let's be clear,
Hamas is a terrorist organization.
It deliberately killed civilians,
as it did
on October 7th,
and it deliberately hides behind
civilians in Gaza.
I understand
the argument
that there has been
insufficient attention
to protect civilian lives there. But.
But I wonder,
who do you hold responsible?
Who do you hold responsible for it?
Is it Israel alone?
Is it Israel and the US for its support?
But is Hamas?
Does Hamas
also bear responsibility
for the civilian losses?
Absolutely.
I mean, Hamas
is a terrorist organization.
I just think that the way Israel
and as well as the United States
have been involved
in conducting this war,
it could have been done
in a very different manner.
The the levels of the casualties
that we're seeing, the use of starvation
as a weapon of war,
the fact that the United States
isn't using its leverage
to insist that aid get in
and that a cease fire
be put in place, in particular,
we're seeing from the Israeli public
their frustration with the fact
that their own hostages
are not actually being prioritized.
Instead, we have the prime minister,
whose political future
depends on this war
going on for as long as possible.
He's he's talked about
going after Lebanon as well.
I know that the US government
is trying to do everything they can
to prevent that,
but thus far
I shouldn't say everything
they can there.
They're not doing everything
they can to prevent that.
I would argue
they need to use all the leverage
to make sure Israel
neither expands the war and
and agrees to a ceasefire,
an exchange of hostages from both sides
and to to bring in the necessary aid.
You told my colleague
Christiane Amanpour today
that you speak for,
quote, many people
when standing against the US government's
Gaza policy.
I wonder when you when you left,
when you made your resignation public,
when you wrote this opinion
piece for CNN,
did many people
that many of your colleagues
come to you and say, we're backing you?
They have.
I was not planning initially
to to go public.
I was only at the State
Department a brief time.
But when I started to tell people
that I was planning to resign
quietly, they said,
you know, please
reconsider, please,
please go public if you'd be willing to.
So I decided I would.
And since then,
I have had people reach out to me.
I think my my greatest concern
is that by going public,
I might somehow undermine
some of these efforts.
And the State Department
is doing very important work here.
But I do think that public pressure is
why we're starting
to see the administration shifting here.
And it is the administration
that is making these decisions.
It's the president
who is deciding
what our policy towards Israel and
regarding Gaza is going to be.
So even though
there are many people inside state
who disagree with this, it's
going to take the president
changing his mind
before we see a new policy.
Let me ask you this,
because as you as you say,
there has been both private
and public pressure
increasing from President Biden
and the White House
in recent days
and weeks on Israel, for instance,
not to go into Rafah in Gaza.
That's insufficient, in your view.
What would be sufficient, in your view,
from the U.S. side?
I think the U.S.
needs to uphold our own laws.
We have the Leahy laws
that would that stipulate that U.S.
foreign military assistance
cannot go to units of a foreign military
that that are engaged
in gross human rights violations.
Also a foreign government
that is preventing US humanitarian aid
is no longer eligible for for U.S.
military assistance.
We're not upholding those laws.
So I think we could start there,
just start upholding our own laws.
I think this is particularly crucial
not only for the people of Gaza,
but this administration
has tried to distinguish itself
from the previous administration
as one that not only
believes in the rule of law,
but that believes in America's
role in the world
and wanted to reestablish America
as a leader,
not only in terms of, you know,
I know you've done
work on great power competition,
but if America is
is not going to distinguish itself
from some of our adversaries
that engage in these sorts of human
rights violations,
why should the rest of the world
look to us as a leader?
You said the loss of soft power,
Doctor and she line.
Thanks so much for sharing
your point of view.
I appreciate having you on.